TITLE: Deputy Governor's Special Remarks at the Launch of Malaysia Economic Monitor
DATE: 09 Feb 2023
URL: https://www.bnm.gov.my/-/dgar-mem-launch
--------------------------------------------------



Introduction

بِسْمِ اللَّهِ الرَّحْمَنِ الرَّحِيم

The possibilities that digitalisation opens up for Malaysia

Ladies and gentlemen,

First, managing cost of living issues. Innovations such as precision agriculture and vertical farming can improve food yields, support better supply chain management and enhance price discovery to reduce food inflation.

Second, increasing labor efficiency with reduced foreign worker dependency. For a 10,000-hectare palm oil estate, drone technology completes tree counting and detection of soil conditions in a span of 4 hours, instead of over 14 days involving 20 people ordinarily. With wider adoption, this supports redeployment of labour into more strategic activities.

Third, enhancing social protection for vulnerable households. Digital solutions can integrate social benefit databases across the ecosystem, reduce leakages and help improve take-up of social programs. This leads to targeted social planning and resource savings. It also means more resources for other critical needs such as health, education and sanitation.

Navigating the digital future (3Ps – Policies, Platforms, People)

Malaysia’s National Digital Economy Blueprint aims to accelerate our digital economy and increase digital jobs. E-commerce, digital payments, and digital government initiatives are all part of national plans to transform Malaysia into a digitally driven, high-income nation by 2030.

For the Bank, our Financial Sector Blueprint, launched last year, also sets out strategies to harness digital finance. These include futureproofing key digital infrastructures, enabling more digital finance solutions, strengthening cyber security readiness and supporting greater use of technology for regulation and supervision.

Ladies and gentlemen,

First, we should build an open data ecosystem that is fit for the future. Open data has the potential to drive innovation and improve real-time decision-making. On this front, efforts are underway to enhance data infrastructure and facilitate seamless data-sharing arrangements in the economy. These range from sharing platforms for medical insurance claims data to development of common standards for economy-wide data sharing arrangements. Such initiatives go hand in hand with policies to ensure ethical practices and high standards of data governance within the financial industry.

Second, for Malaysia to have in place a robust Digital Identity infrastructure. From what we see in successfully digitalised countries, National Digital ID is the key infrastructure. It acts as the passport into the world of digital offerings and inclusion. I believe our digital economy prospects will be greatly enhanced once a National Digital ID is operational.

Third, we must work to future-proof our payment infrastructures. Continuous efforts are being taken to enhance Malaysia’s payment capacity in an increasingly borderless, digital future. Bilateral payment linkages with Thailand and Indonesia are now live. This means traveling Malaysians can make instant payments by scanning QR codes at participating merchants. For the future, we are also exploring a multilateral model for payment systems, led by the Bank of International Settlements (BIS).

Fourth, Malaysia must strive to ensure widespread and efficient access to the internet and broadband. Broadband access remains essential for bridging the digital divide, promoting economic growth and enabling the full potential of technology. For Malaysia to realise productivity and efficiency gains, enhancements to quality, access and affordability of the internet will be critical, especially in the rural areas.

Concluding message

On that note, I wish you every success for today’s event. I hope the event will generate a fruitful and productive discussion.

Thank you.

